#Data analysis and python
#task no.1

"""
#questions
1. Why do you think companies analyze large volumes of data?
2. If analyzing and sorting large data manually in Excel is difficult, how do you think Python can help solve this problem?
3. Imagine you work at a sales company that receives data about 10,000 customer transactions daily. How would you analyze this data?
4. In your opinion, what tasks can Python be useful for in BI processes? (e.g., data cleaning, visualization, etc.)
5. If you wanted to compare a company's profit year by year, how could this be done using Python?
6. If you don't know Python, what difficulties might you face when working with large datasets?

#answers
1. Companies look at large volumes of data because they want to stop guessing and start knowing. By looking at everything 
they've collected, they can find the real reasons why customers buy certain things or why a business is losing money in a 
specific area. It helps them see the big picture so they can make better choices, save money, and plan for the next year with
 actual facts instead of just a "hunch."
2. Excel is easy to use for small tasks, but it starts to struggle or even crash when you give it too much information. Python 
handles this by using code to talk to the computer directly, so it doesn't get slowed down by trying to show thousands of rows on 
a screen. With Python, you can write a set of instructions once, and the computer will follow those steps perfectly every time. 
This means you don't have to spend hours clicking the same buttons or filtering the same columns every single day.
3. If I had to handle 10,000 transactions every day, I would use a Python script to do the repetitive work for me. The script
 would automatically open the new data file every morning and check for errors, like missing numbers or dates that don't make 
 sense. Then, it would group the transactions together to tell me the total sales and which items were the most popular. Instead
   of me spending my whole morning sorting through a giant list, the script would give me the final answer in a few seconds.
4. Python is great for the "messy" parts of Business Intelligence. Its main job is often data cleaning, which just means fixing 
typos, removing duplicates, and filling in missing information so the reports are accurate. It is also very useful for moving
 data from different places—like a website and a spreadsheet—and putting them into one clean list. Besides that, it can be used
   to make clear charts or even to predict how many items a store might sell next week based on what happened in the past.
5. To compare profit over several years using Python, I would start by loading all the sales data into a tool called a DataFrame.
 I would tell Python to look at the date of every single sale and put them into groups based on the year they happened. After that, 
 I would ask the computer to add up all the profit for each year group. To finish, I would make a simple line graph that shows those
   totals, which makes it very easy to see if the company is making more money or less money as time goes on.
6. If you don't know how to use Python, working with big datasets becomes very frustrating and slow. You have to do everything by 
hand, which makes it very easy to make a small mistake—like deleting a row by accident—that ruins all your results. You also run 
into a "wall" where programs like Excel simply won't open files that are too large. You end up spending all your time doing boring,
 repetitive tasks instead of actually looking at the data to see what it means for the business.

"""
